IBX-6409: Render in PHP (#2120)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/templating/render_content/render_content_in_php.md

---

> description: Render the content from PHP and get the HTML as a string.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Render Content item from PHP and get the HTML as a string.
```

The following example is a command outputting the render of a content for a view type in the terminal.
It works only if the view doesn't refer to the HTTP request.
It works with views like the `line` or `embed` ones from default installation.
To go further with this example, you could add some dedicated views not outputting HTML but plain text, [Symfony command styled text](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/console/coloring.html), Markdown, etc.
It doesn't work with a `full` view if the [Page layout](template_configuration.md#page-layout) is using `app.request.locale` as the out-of-the-box one does.

Append to `config/services.yaml` the command as a service:

```yaml
services:
    #…
    App\Command\ViewCommand:
        tags:
            - { name: 'console.command', command: 'app:view' }
```

Create the command in `src/Command/ViewCommand.php`:

```php hl_lines="59-63"
[[= include_file('code_samples/front/render_content_in_php/src/Command/ViewCommand.php') =]]
```

> 
> Use the command with some simple views:

Author: @adamwojs Is this caution box would be enough?

```suggestion

!!! caution

    As `Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\View\Builder\ContentViewBuilder` and `Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\View\Renderer\TemplateRenderer` are not part of the public API's `Ibexa\Contracts` namespace, they might change without notice.

Use the command with some simple views:
```

---
description: Render Content item from PHP and get the resulting HTML as a string.
---

# Render content in PHP

> While in PHP, you may need to render the view of a Content item (for further treatment like PDF conversion, because you're not in an HTML context, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in PHP, you may need to render the view of a Content item (for further treatment like PDF conversion, because you're not in an HTML context, and so on.).
```

> While in PHP, you may need to render the view of a Content item (for further treatment like PDF conversion, because you're not in an HTML context, etc.).

Author: You're right.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/etc
And I saw another `etc.` few lines latter.

> While in PHP, you may need to render the view of a Content item (for further treatment like PDF conversion, because you're not in an HTML context, etc.).

Author: @juskora I tried another way to present incomplete infinite lists in 0f9514831bf23942ab93a44647ed915b8fd6b614

!!! caution

>     Avoid using this in a controller as much as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Avoid using rendering in a controller as much as possible.
```
"this" is not descriptive enough

Author: You're right.

In a way, You can render but not by yourself… Let's be more descriptive:

```suggestion
    Avoid using PHP rendering in a controller as much as possible.
```

>     You can access directly to a view via the route `/view/content/{contentId}/{viewType}[/{location}]`. For example, on a fresh installation, you can access `/view/content/52/line` which will return a small piece of HTML with a link to the content that could be used in Ajax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can access a view directly via the route `/view/content/{contentId}/{viewType}[/{location}]`. For example, on a fresh installation, you can access `/view/content/52/line` which will return a small piece of HTML with a link to the content that could be used in Ajax.
```

>     You can access a view directly via the route `/view/content/{contentId}/{viewType}[/{location}]`. For example, on a fresh installation, you can access `/view/content/52/line` which will return a small piece of HTML with a link to the content that could be used in Ajax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can access a view directly through the route `/view/content/{contentId}/{viewType}[/{location}]`. For example, on a fresh installation, you can access `/view/content/52/line` which will return a small piece of HTML with a link to the content that could be used in Ajax.
```

>     If you need a controller (to have additional information available in the template, or to manipulate the `Response` object before returning it), a controller defined in a [view configuration](template_configuration.md) as shown in [Controllers](controllers.md) is a better practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you need a controller to have additional information available in the template or to manipulate the `Response` object before returning it, define the controller in a [view configuration](template_configuration.md) as shown in [Controllers](controllers.md).
```

The following example is a command outputting the render of a content for a view type in the terminal.
It works only if the view doesn't refer to the HTTP request.

> It works with views like the `line` or `embed` ones from default installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is compatibile with the default installation views such as `line` or `embed`.
```

Author: - `Use 'it's' instead of 'It is'.  Microsoft.Contractions`
- "compatibile"
Fixed in c74edc43dcb1f9d68273e606cd8a827e41c418d4

> To go further with this example, you could add some dedicated views not outputting HTML but plain text, [Symfony command styled text](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/console/coloring.html), Markdown, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To go further with this example, you could add some dedicated views not outputting HTML but plain text, [Symfony command styled text]([[= symfony_doc =]]/console/coloring.html), Markdown, etc.
```

Reviewer: etc. -> and so on

> It doesn't work with a `full` view if the [Page layout](template_configuration.md#page-layout) is using `app.request.locale` as the out-of-the-box one does.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It doesn't work with a `full` view when the [Page layout](template_configuration.md#page-layout) uses `app.request.locale`, as is the case in the out-of-the-box configuration..
```
